In relational databases a transaction is…
A set of operations that forms an inseparable unit.

What is an implicit transaction?
A transaction that is managed by DBMS and requires no explicit commands for start, commit or roll back.

Do all DBMSes support implicit transactions?
Yes, except for Oracle.

How can we detect if implicit transactions are enabled?
Each DBMS has its own non-trivial mechanisms.

Can we still manipulate database data with implicit transactions disabled?
Yes

Do all DBMSes support explicit transactions?
Yes

Can we commit an explicit transaction?
Yes

Can we roll back an explicit transaction?
Yes

How can we detect if explicit transactions are enabled?
We don’t need to detect if explicit transactions are enabled.

Can we manipulate database data with explicit transactions?
Yes

A transaction isolation level is…
A virtual value showing the degree of visibility of changes between transactions.

The “read committed” transaction isolation level protects us from the following problems:
Lost update
Dirty read

The “repeatable read” transaction isolation level protects us from the following problems:
Lost update
Dirty read
Repeatable read

The “read uncommitted” transaction isolation level protects us from the following problem:
Lost update

The “snapshot” transaction isolation level protects us from the following problems:
Lost update
Dirty read
Non-repeatable read

So called “lost update” problem arises when…
One transaction loses its update due to other’s transaction later update.

So called “dirty read” problem arises when…
One transaction reads temporary data produced by another transaction (such data will never be saved in the database)

So called “non-repeatable read” problem arises when…
A transaction gets different results on the first and the second read attempts.

So called “phantom reads” problem arises when…
A transaction gets different results of some data aggregation on the first and the second read attempts.

Can a DBMS handle mutual transaction lock situation?
Yes, one of such transactions will be rolled back.

Can we commit or roll back a transaction from a stored function?
No, but we may create a situation that forced a DBMS to roll back a transaction.

Can we commit or roll back a transaction from a stored procedure?
Yes

Can we commit or roll back a transaction from a trigger?
Not in every DBMS, but we may create a situation that forced a DBMS to roll back a transaction.

Can we change a transaction isolation level in a stored procedure?
Yes

Can we change a transaction isolation level in a stored function?
No