A trigger may be activated by the following operations:
INSERT
UPDATE

There are such trigger types as:
BEFORE triggers.
AFTER triggers.
INSTEAD OF triggers.

With INSTEAD OF triggers we have to…
Perform necessary data modification from within the trigger.

Row-level triggers…
Are activated for each modified row, only this row is available within the trigger.

Statement-level triggers…
Are activated once for the whole modification statement, all modified data is available within the trigger.

With triggers we may perform…
Complex cascade operations.
Business logic implementation and control.

Can we modify data of the same table to which an activated trigger belongs?
Yes.

Can we modify data of some other table (i.e., not the same table to which an activated trigger belongs)?
Yes

While updating some aggregate field value with triggers…
In most cases we may avoid full data recalculation, thou it may complicate the trigger code.
In some cases we have to perform full data recalculation due to DBMS limitations.

OLD and NEW keywords are available…
In row-level triggers only.

INSERTED and DELETED virtual tables are available…
In statement-level triggers only.

Can we roll back a transaction from within a trigger?
Yes in some DBMSes (in other we have to simulate this action with raising an exception or error).

Can we return an error message from a trigger while blocking some operation?
Yes

Can we use variables inside triggers?
Yes

Can we use regular expressions and/or other data format control mechanisms inside triggers?
Yes

Why do we sometimes have to create separate INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE triggers doing the same (or almost the same) things instead of creating one trigger for all operations?
Some DBMSes do not support assigning one trigger for several operations.
It helps to simplify trigger code.

Once we’ve assigned one trigger for INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE operations in MS SQL Server, can we distinguish which operation was the reason for the trigger activation?
Yes

Can we change some field value with a trigger before that value is used for INSERT or UPDATE?
Yes

Can triggers be activated by cascade operations?
No for MySQL, yes for MS SQL Server and Oracle.

How can we make sure that our trigger works as intended?
We shall test its behavior performing corresponding queries.
